chore(blog): adding 3 New Articles as Blog Posts (#1805)
asyncapi/website: pages/blog/zenwave-asyncapi-code-generator.md

---

> title: API-First with AsyncAPI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: API-First with AsyncAPI and ZenWave SDK
```

> date: 2023-06-17T06:00:00+01:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2023-08-10T06:00:00+01:00
```

type: Engineering
tags:
  - ZenWave SDK
  - Code Generator
  - Java
  - Spring Cloud Streams
cover: /img/posts/zenwave/ZenWave360-AsyncAPI-SpringCloudStreams.png
canonical: https://zenwave360.github.io/Event-Driven-Architectures/AsyncAPI-Code-Generator
authors:
  - name: Ivan Garcia Sainz-Aja
    photo: /img/avatars/ivangsa.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ivangarciasainzaja/
    byline: Software Architect at Sngular. Speaker. Building ZenWave 360º

> excerpt: 'With ZenWave SDK plugins you can generate strongly typed business interfaces, payload and header DTOs and several integration patterns like Transactional Outbox, DeadLetter Queue... from AsyncAPI definitions.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: 'With ZenWave SDK plugins, you can generate strongly typed business interfaces, payload and header DTOs and several integration patterns like Transactional Outbox, DeadLetter Queue... from AsyncAPI definitions.'
```

---

## API-First with AsyncAPI and ZenWave SDK

> With ZenWave's `spring-cloud-streams3` and `jsonschema2pojo` plugins you can generate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With ZenWave's `spring-cloud-streams3` and `jsonschema2pojo` plugins, you can generate:
```

- Strongly typed **business interfaces**
- **Payload DTOs** and 
- **Header objects** from AsyncAPI definitions.

> It uses Spring Cloud Streams as default implementation, so it can connect to many different brokers via provided binders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses Spring Cloud Streams as the default implementation, so it can connect to many different brokers via provided binders.
```

> And because everything is hidden behind interfaces we can encapsulate many Enterprise Integration Patterns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And because everything is hidden behind interfaces, we can encapsulate many Enterprise Integration Patterns:
```

> - Transactional Outbox: with MongoDB ChangeStreams, Plain SQL and Debezium SQL flavors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Transactional Outbox: with MongoDB ChangeStreams, Plain SQL, and Debezium SQL flavors
```

                    <role>provider</role>
                    <style>imperative</style>
                    <transactionalOutbox>mongodb</transactionalOutbox>
                    <modelPackage>io.zenwave360.example.core.domain.events</modelPackage>
                    <producerApiPackage>io.zenwave360.example.core.outbound.events</producerApiPackage>
                    <consumerApiPackage>io.zenwave360.example.adapters.commands</consumerApiPackage>
                </configOptions>
            </configuration>
        </execution>
    </executions>

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>io.github.zenwave360.zenwave-sdk.plugins</groupId>
            <artifactId>asyncapi-spring-cloud-streams3</artifactId>
            <version>${zenwave.version}</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>io.github.zenwave360.zenwave-sdk.plugins</groupId>
            <artifactId>asyncapi-jsonschema2pojo</artifactId>
            <version>${zenwave.version}</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</plugin>
```

![ZenWave StreamCloudStreams AsyncAPI](/img/posts/zenwave/spring-cloud-streams3-generated.png)

### Provider vs Client

> Because broker based API definitions are inherently **symmetrical** it's difficult to establish the roles of client/server. ZenWave generates code based on `provider` and `client` roles, where a `provider` "produces events" and "consumes commands". See [API-First with AsyncAPI](API-First-with-AsyncAPI) page for more details on "publish/subscribe", "producer/consumer" and "provider/client" roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because broker-based API definitions are inherently **symmetrical**, it's difficult to establish the roles of client/server. ZenWave generates code based on `provider` and `client` roles, where a `provider` "produces events" and "consumes commands". See [API-First with AsyncAPI](API-First-with-AsyncAPI) page for more details on "publish/subscribe", "producer/consumer," and "provider/client" roles.
```

> Write your AsyncAPI definitions from the `provider` perspective and then configure the code generator to generate either a `provider` or a `client`.

> If you still find confusing which is a provider and a client just use this rule: In a given messaging scenario, there can be only one provider of a message, while there can be multiple clients.. If the provider is producing messages, use the `publish` section. If the provider is consuming messages, use the `subscribe` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you still find it confusing which is a provider and a client, use this rule: In a given messaging scenario, there can be only one provider of a message, while there can be multiple clients. If the provider is producing messages, use the `publish` section. If the provider is consuming messages, use the `subscribe` section.
```

### Spring Cloud Streams Producer: Using generated code to produce messages

On the producer side generates:

> - Interface `ICustomerEventsProducer` to produce typed messages that uses your domain names: `onCustomerEvent`, `CustomerEventPayload` and `CustomerEventPayloadHeaders`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Interface `ICustomerEventsProducer` to produce typed messages that uses your domain names: `onCustomerEvent`, `CustomerEventPayload`, and `CustomerEventPayloadHeaders`.
```

> - Producer `@Component` `CustomerEventsProducer` you can autowire in your services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Producer `@Component` `CustomerEventsProducer` to use autowire in your services.
```

> **In order to produce messages all you need to do is @Autowire the generated producer as part of your code.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To produce messages, all you need to do is @Autowire the generated producer, as part of your code.**
```

> This producer component, because sits behind a business oriented interface, can be implemented in different flavors and integration patterns like transactional outbox (for mongodb and sql) or enterprise envelop depending on how you configure zenwave maven generator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because it sits behind a business-oriented interface, this producer component can be implemented in different flavors and integration patterns like transactional outbox (for MongoDB and SQL) or enterprise envelop, depending on how you configure the Zenwave maven generator.
```

        log.debug("Sending message to topic: {}", onCustomerEventBindingName);
        Message message = MessageBuilder.createMessage(payload, new MessageHeaders(headers));
        return streamBridge.send(onCustomerEventBindingName, message);
    }
}
```

```java
// Autowire this producer in your code
@Autowired
ICustomerEventsProducer customerEventsProducer;

// and use it to produce messages
var message = new CustomerEventPayload()
        .withCustomerId("123")
        // [...] set some more data
        .withEventType(CustomerEventPayload.EventType.CREATED);
// notice how headers are also strongly typed
var headers = new ICustomerEventsProducer.CustomerEventPayloadHeaders()
        .entityId("123")
        .commonHeader("value")
        .set("undocumented-header", "value");

customerEventsProducer.onCustomerEvent(message, headers);
```

### Spring Cloud Streams Consumer: Using generated code to consume messages

On the consumer side generates:

- Functional Consumer `DoCustomerRequestConsumer`  for Spring Cloud Streams bindings.
- Business Interface `IDoCustomerRequestConsumerService` you need to implement in order to receive strongly typed messages.

> This Functional Consumer can abstract away different integration patterns like Business Dead Letter Queue and others... depending on how you configure zenwave maven generator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Functional Consumer can abstract away different integration patterns like Business Dead Letter Queue and others... depending on how you configure the Zenwave maven generator.
```

> **To consume messages you need to implement generated business interface and register it as a Spring bean.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To consume messages, you need to implement the generated business interface and register it as a Spring bean.**
```

        try {
            Object payload = message.getPayload();
            if (payload instanceof CustomerEventPayload) {
                var headers = new IOnCustomerEventConsumerService.CustomerEventPayloadHeaders();
                headers.putAll(message.getHeaders());
                service.onCustomerEvent((CustomerEventPayload) payload, headers);
                return;
            }
            log.error("Received message without any business handler: [payload: {}, message: {}]", payload.getClass().getName(), message);
        } catch (Exception e) {
            // error handling and dead-letter-queue routing omitted for brevity
        }
    }
}
```

```java
// Implement the business interface and add it to your context
@Component
class DoCustomerRequestConsumerService implements IDoCustomerRequestConsumerService {

    @Override
    public void doCustomerRequest(CustomerRequestPayload payload, CustomerRequestPayloadHeaders headers) {
        log.info("Received '{}' message with payload: {}", payload.getClass(), payload);
        // [...] do something with this message
    }
}
```

### Exception Handling with Business Dead Letter Queue

> ZenWave SDK consumers can be configured to route exceptions to different error queues. This is useful to manage non-retryable business exceptions so the stream processing is not interrupted. If your code throws an exception not configured for error routing it will be rethrow and it will follow the standard error handling mechanism for your particular Spring Cloud Stream binder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ZenWave SDK consumers can be configured to route exceptions to different error queues. This is useful to manage non-retrayable business exceptions so the stream processing is not interrupted. If your code throws an exception not configured for error routing, it will be rethrown and follow the standard error handling mechanism for your particular Spring Cloud Stream binder.
```

            x-runtime-expression: $tracingIdSupplier
```

```xml
<configOption>
    <tracingIdSupplierQualifier>myTracingIdSupplier</tracingIdSupplierQualifier><!-- default is "tracingIdSupplier" -->
    <runtimeHeadersProperty>x-custom-runtime-expression</runtimeHeadersProperty><!-- you can also override this extension property name -->
</configOption>
```

```java
    @Bean("myTracingIdSupplier")
    public Supplier tracingIdSupplier() {
        return () -> "test-tracing-id";
    }
```

### InMemory Producers as TestDoubles

Alongside the generated producer, ZenWave SDK also generates an _in-memory producer captor_ that can be used as a test double and a singletone manual context so you easily include them in your unit/integration tests.

```java
// generated class, you can use in your tests
public class ProducerInMemoryContext {

    public static final ProducerInMemoryContext INSTANCE = new ProducerInMemoryContext();

    private CustomerEventsProducerCaptor customerEventsProducerCaptor = new CustomerEventsProducerCaptor();

    public <T extends ICustomerEventsProducer> T customerEventsProducer() {
        return (T) customerEventsProducerCaptor;
    }
}
```

> And use it in your tests to instantiate your service and perform assertions in your tests. You can find [a working example here](https://github.com/ivangsa/spring-boot-mongodb-elasticsearch-kafka-example/blob/e8fa9c89e5f3d72b90ac23749f636fc7640bdf39/src/test/java/io/zenwave360/example/core/implementation/CustomerUseCasesTest.java#L70).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And you can use it in your tests to instantiate your service and perform assertions. You can find [a working example here](https://github.com/ivangsa/spring-boot-mongodb-elasticsearch-kafka-example/blob/e8fa9c89e5f3d72b90ac23749f636fc7640bdf39/src/test/java/io/zenwave360/example/core/implementation/CustomerUseCasesTest.java#L70).
```
